When you make a new channel, the first
thing that happens is YouTube reviews
your account to verify you're not a bot.
If YouTube thinks you're a real person
who posts good content, then they'll
push your videos out to a seed audience
of around 30,000 people to start
building channel data. If your channel
isn't trustworthy, your shorts won't be
pushed out to anyone. This is called
zero view jail. To avoid this, you need
to use an aged channel, an older email
with a lot of history, but most
importantly, enable third level feature
eligibility. This is normally the make
or break for getting view jail because
it instantly [music] proves you're a
real person. All of this feeds into a
hidden metric called trust score.
Basically, how much YouTube trusts that
when they push out your videos, people
will actually watch them and make them
money. Low trust means YouTube would
rather push out someone else's video
instead of wasting viewers on you. Once
you start posting, YouTube will be
willing to push out your videos to
around 30,000 people. People call this
the 30k view jail, and the purpose of it
is pretty simple. YouTube builds
profiles on both the viewers and also
the creators. Every short you post will
get shown to a different group of 30,000
people, and during this, YouTube is just
trying to find the perfect audience for
your content. Every graph when you start
a channel typically looks the same. A
slow start, a spike, and then a flat
[music] line. If the video's good
enough, then YouTube will show it to a
few more people to see if it's worthy of
going viral. If your short flatlines in
the thousands, it's due to one of these.
But if you're in the 10k to low 20k
range, it's due to one of these. A lot
of people hate on the 30k view jail, but
it's actually a really good spot to be
in because it means your shorts are good
enough to go viral. YouTube just needs
more data. Once they know exactly who to
show your content to, the next video
your seed audience responds well to will
get pushed to a much wider audience.
Videos that appeal to anyone without
needing data are the ones that go viral
on brand new channels. That's why a lot
of general animation channels blew up
instantly. Anyone can enjoy watching
these type of shorts, [music] not just
the people who are interested in the
topic. To determine if your video's
good, the algorithm focuses on retention
more than any other stat. You need to
get this graph as flat as possible, as
high as possible, and get the initial
dip as small as possible. Perfect
retention can save a video even when the
other stats are bad, but still, aim to
get your VVS A and AVD up to here.
Engagement can also save a video with
bad stats, but don't be spammy with
CTAs. If you ever do it, you can lose a
lot of trust with YouTube. Doing CTA
like this is actually against their
policies. As you post more, your monthly
audience slowly grows because your
videos are constantly being shown to
different seed audiences. Your trust
score goes up significantly when you
convert new viewers into casual and
regular viewers. This happens naturally,
but it's one of the biggest signals
YouTube looks at when deciding who to
push your videos to. So, to go viral as
fast as possible, you need to be
uploading every single day. After your
first viral video, you enter this kind
of honeymoon phase. YouTube becomes more
and more willing to push out your
content to a lot of people cuz you've
proven that you can be trusted once
before. You might get view [music]
jailed again temporarily, but if you
keep posting videos as good as your
outliers, you'll go viral again and much
[music] faster. Once your trust score is
high enough, YouTube will stop view
jailing you. Every video gets pushed to
a wider audience, and from there, it's
just a matter of uploads before you hit
10 million views and [music] get
monetized. But when you reach this
point, to try harder than you ever have.
If you get lazy now, then you might have
to restart. In this high trust [music]
state, posting less or consistently
dropping bad videos can get you view
jailed more often or only pushed to
[music] subscribers. But the most
important thing you need is a niche that
people actually want to watch. It's hard
to go viral when 10 other people are
posting the exact same thing as you. And
in an over-saturated niche, YouTube
prioritizes the most trustworthy
channels, making it really hard to grow.
So, to help with that, I have a playlist
of a bunch of viral niches I find, and
I'll be constantly updating it. These
are niches I would use myself, so check
it out. If you want a free personalized
[music] channel review or need help with
anything, join the Discord.